This is May 7, a beautiful day in Kerrville, Texas,
and sitting in the living room looking out on the
golf course with Mr. Porter Garner, Jr. And I
should have held this mic up near where I am. Mr.
Garner, say a sentence and let's check yours. Yes,
is it coming through all right?
Let's begin with a brief review of where you were
born and grew up and went to high school before you
thought about going to A&M. All right. I was born in
Carnes County, a little community out between
Carnes City and Nixon called Mound Creek. My
father was a schoolteacher. He had a two teacher
school at that time at Mound Creek. And
we moved when I was a babe in arms to Rivera, Texas,
down below Kingsville. It was quite a promotion
for my father. He got about a seven teacher school
where he was superintendent there. After
two or three years there, they built the college in
Kingsville, which at that time was called South
Texas State Teachers College. And my father was
the first male student to enroll when they built
that college. And because prior to this time, all
he had was a teacher's certificate, which he had
gained in one semester at, it was not called
Southwest, texas state then it was i believe it was
southwest texas normal in san marcos in san marcos
he attended there one semester and passed the
requirements for a teacher certificate anyway he
decided if he was going to stay in the profession he
better get him a formal education i know this is
kind of running a no no way but anyway he did he
finished there in Kingsville. He was the night
watchman, janitor, did some tutoring on the side
and raised a family and finished there in three and
a half years and went from there to the little town
of Premont as superintendent. From there to Corn
City, Corn City to Robstown, and Robstown to
Victoria and that's where he retired from
teaching and we moved to Laredo where he went into
private business.
Robstown was dear to me for quite a few reasons but
that's where my father first became involved in
any way with Lyndon Johnson and that was strictly
because of the Kleberg in Kingsville room Lyndon
Johnson worked for Bob Kleberg back at that time as
I believe it was called an administrative
assistant and it stood well for my father later on
because of being able to get things for the schools
to the National Youth Administration and which
Johnson was, I would, hold on just a moment.
Anyway, back to the deal. He got a lot of programs
for the different schools where he was located
through the National Youth Administration to
create jobs for kids that were going to school and
had a little problem because we're talking about
the, depression years, and everybody was anxious
for all the help they could get. I'll say that I was
quite young at that time, but I do remember a lot of
things that at the time didn't necessarily make
sense to me, but as I look back I could understand
what took place. One little thing in, in Robstown,
for instance, one of the first schools to ever have
a, in South Texas, to have a cafeteria on site. And
all of us in the elementary grades were forced to
have lunch at the cafeteria. And
And the reason for it was to ensure that all
children got a hot meal, one hot meal a day, good
meal. And you didn't pay at the cafeteria. Your
homeroom teacher took up the money because she
knew who could afford that nickel or dime and who
couldn't. And no one ever knew who paid and who
didn't pay. But anyway, that's neither here nor
there. It's just a little background.
information. My father, who was my ideal, he was
my ideal. That's the best thing I can say. Anyway,
when I finished high school in Laredo, Texas,
Exactly why I went to Texas A&M, I can't tell you. Do
you know when you first thought about it?
Probably in 1939 and 40. And it wasn't because of
the football team, even though I'm a great
football fan. We had some boys from Laredo who had
been friends of mine but were a year ahead of me in
school. and a couple of them that I knew quite well
had gone to A&M as freshmen and come home and
the things they would talk about and so on just
impressed me so that I thought this ought to be a
pretty good deal. Do you remember what it was that
they said attracted you? the camaraderie of the
cohesiveness of the students and just so many
things like that. It certainly wasn't the
academics because I was like a lot of young kids at
that time.
I didn't know what in the world I wanted to do. My
daddy had talked about how being a doctor would be
such a nice thing. I thought, well, that would be a
nice thing to be as a doctor. I'll just think about
that. Well, these boys, I don't know, if they would
have told me everything about being a freshman at
A&M, I might not have gone. But anyway, it was the
camaraderie and everything that just, It was just
the thing to do as far as I was concerned. Did you go
visit before you went to enroll? The first time I
ever saw Texas A&M was when my father helped me
unload my footlocker out of the back of the car over
in what was called at that time the new area. Now I
think they call it the quad or something. He helped
me, set it on the ground there. We shook hands, and
he said, son, you're on your own. And he drove off.
And it was a rude awakening. It was different.
Describe those first few hours and days. Well,
when I first looked, I knew, found out that that was
dorm... I mean, dorm four, and that's where I was,
no, let's see, dorm six, and that's where I was
supposed to be. I said, well, I can't handle all
this I've got here. So I saw a fella going over
towards that door and I said, hey, I said, and
fortunately I did introduce myself to him. And I
asked him if he'd help me take that trunk I was
supposed to be there. And so he said, sure. And so he
picked up one end of the trunk, and I had the trunk
and a suitcase. And he helped me carry it in. And it
so happened that I had a corner room assigned to me
on the second floor. And he went right along with me
and helped me put that trunk down in that corner
room. I started to unpack and put things around and
so on and so forth and all of a sudden a couple of
fellas came in and asked me what I was doing and I
said well I was just unpacking and he says why here?
And well to make a long story short I was it was
explained to me that I was not going to be in that
room, that there had been a mistake in some way, and
it would be better for the time being if I just put my
things out in the hall and I would be told later
where to put them. Well, that was just, that was my
first awakening at being a freshman at Texas A&M
University. So happened that different ones were
drifting in and a lot of them in my same shape and it
didn't take very long however for us to understand
that just take it easy and don't let the mouth get to
working too much and see what happens.
Well one thing led to another and we were assigned
to different, to roommates and to different rooms
and in fact the first night we were there I was
initiated in what they called a bleed meeting and
I'm sure you're familiar with it. Describe yours.
Well, this first one was all the freshmen that were
there at the time, and I would say there was, had to
be at least 20 of us. We were in a room, all sitting on
the floor.
Sardines had never been packed any tighter than
that.
That room is approximately 10
or 12 by 14. I would, and that's given a little bit.
It certainly wasn't any bigger than that. And
there was a double deck bed in there, a dresser,
two desks, it wasn't a dresser either, there was a
medicine cabinet and a sink, and two tables for
desks, two chairs. This
doesn't sound like it's possible, but on top of
that, there was at least 20 freshmen on the floor,
sitting on the beds and on the tables, for this were
sophomores, or pissheads. And I
learned real quick, don't look down, look up. Even
if, whatever, you look right at one of them, don't
let your eyes stray away. And we were given to
understand real quick that
I believe the saying went, a freshman
was lower than,
if you'll just pardon the vernacular because
you're going to edit this out, says if a freshman,
sir,
is the lowest thing imaginable, it's ten times
lower than whales shed on the bottom of the ocean.
yet it's 100 times higher than a graduate of Texas
University. And there were a few other little
things, but it always ended up with, that, sir, is
the definition of a freshman. Well,
it was quickly to be understood that we were there
for the, at the pleasure and for the pleasure of the
upperclassmen, and what happened to us was
strictly immaterial, supposedly. It was a full
year or more before I learned that these people
really and truly cared for us, and that with
possibly one or two exceptions, they all turned
out to be great great fellas what was your outfit i
was in i battery field artillery did it have a
nickname no no it didn't prior the year prior or two
years prior it had been called third combat train
but they we had to look at our time had the largest
freshman class that had ever come to texas a m we
had, if I'm not mistaken, around
1,600 or something in our freshman class. Now that
might miss it a little, but that's pretty close.
you didn't make any choice as to field artillery.
It was selected for you? No, no. We had a, we could
put down choices. You didn't necessarily get what
you put down, but if your application got in early
enough, you probably got what you put down. And the
reason I put field artillery down was the friends
of mine from Laredo had said that's probably the
best thing. How do I know? Now, as you were making
that choice, did it ever occur to you that the
events that were occurring in Europe might have,
wartime events, might have an impact on you? Let me
tell you something about that.
And this is going to be hard for you to believe, but
it's the truth. The majority of students coming in
to Texas A&M at that time were
really unconcerned.
Not, didn't, sure we knew that there was problems
over there. We knew that Poland had been invaded.
We knew that France had been invaded. But
it's very difficult for today's people to,
with our instant, instant knowledge and
communication of everything all over, to realize
back at that time how something that was taking
place in Europe, which was a century away, how it
really affected us. And sure, we knew that it was
going on and so on and so forth, but weren't really
that concerned. It was not really truly, truly
brought home to us, even though they had started
with the peacetime draft. But it was not truly
brought home to us until Pearl Harbor happened.
Describe how you as a freshman got your uniforms
and how you and your roommates settled down in your
room and so forth. Well,
my roommate was a young man named James Collins
from Gonzales, Texas. Jimmy left after, oh, I
don't think he even stayed till midterm.
Let's see. I guess he did. He stayed until midterm
and went home and never came back after midterm.
And he joined the Air Force and was killed very
shortly first went overseas and was killed almost
immediately. But anyway, we got our issue, all
being naturally an ROTC, we got two, let's see, two
pair of wool pants, two pair of khaki pants, I
believe two khaki shirts, And as
I remember it, that's about the size of the issue.
Now, were shoes part of the issue? No, no. You had to
buy your shoes. You had to buy your shoes. And they
were what? Black? Oh, no, they were brown. Brown,
okay. You had to buy a brown shoe, yes, sir. And?
Hat, you bought your hat. I came to school with my
hat. I bought my hat in Laredo. And let's see. In
fact, I think that that was about the only issue
that we had, even though we only wore khakis and
uniform. I mean, there was no such thing,
especially for a freshman, to not wear anything
but the uniform. Did the clothes fit your uniform?
Pretty closely. I was of about a normal size, I
would say, at that time, and I didn't have a lot of
problems that way. Clothes fit pretty well. But,
you know, as well as they're going to fit. But
anyway, we didn't have too much problem there. And
things went along pretty normal. It was one thing
to learn about being set on details and all of this
stuff. And the fact was that your life just wasn't
your own, that's all. But they were very, very
protective when it came to school
from seven o'clock in the evening until eleven
o'clock or no no eleven o'clock that's right
eleven o'clock until the grades came out you had to
be sitting at your desk whether you were studying
or what you had to be sitting there and if you're
going to be sitting there you might as well be
studying or reading something after the grades
came out big concession. If you were passing, had
17 hours and 17 grade points, you could go to bed at
10 o'clock. So that was a big concession.
That was your, in the Aggie lingo, then your fish
old lady left fairly soon. Right. Were you then
without a roommate? No, no, no, no, no. There was
quite a few left. But a lot of them left when the
grades came out. And there was no problem in
filling up the space there. So I got... In fact,
during my time at A&M, I had, before I went into the
service, which we were there a long time after we
went in the service, before I went in the service, I
had three different roommates. And
the one left at midterm, the next one left at the end
of the long term, And then we had a, we went over to
three semesters a year,
starting in September of 42,
I guess it was. Not September, May, around May of
42. And that boy left then and went into the Navy.
Then we went in.
We were inducted, let's say. No, we weren't
inducted until early
43. Officially, we were inducted December of
1942. We had joined what was called the Enlisted
Reserve Corps. They came to A&M with different
propositions. The Navy had a V-12 program. And, of
course, we always asked, how long can we stay in
school? Can't promise you a thing, boys, but we'd
like to have you in our program. The Marines came
with a program called, I don't know, V-something
else. and how long can we stay in school? I said, I
can't promise you a thing. The Army came with the
Enlisted Reserve Corps. How long can we stay in
school? As long as you keep your grades up. Where do
we sign? As far as I know, the Navy boys and the
Marines might still be down there at College
Station, but they pulled us out. they didn't
adhere to their promise that they made, which I can
understand those things. And we were pulled out
and sent to different places to be inducted. I
happened to be sent to Louisiana to... Polk?
Livingston? Livingston, Camp Livingston.
Actually, it was Camp Beauregard, which was just a
few miles from Livingston, and they inducted us
there. They took us over to Livingston to do
everything, but we were actually sleeping at Camp
Beauregard. Let's go back to this freshman year,
first of all. Did you have a major? Yes. a major in
zoology and with a minor in chemistry. I was taking
a pre-medical. Do you remember what courses you
had that first fall? I guess. I had English,
Algebra, Biology, Chemistry,
English, English, algebra, math. Math, history.
The what? Math or history. I had algebra. Oh,
algebra. Okay. You mentioned it. And let's see. I
had one other.
Oh, and German. German. I was thinking German. And
physical education. Do you remember some of those
teachers? Yes. Describe them, please. All right.
I had a... biology teacher that I can't call his
name, but he was a wonderful, wonderful teacher. I
had an algebra teacher that was horrible. I say
that without any rancor towards him. The story was
that he had always taught advanced calculus, but
with the terrific influx of students, he was
pressed into service to teach freshman algebra.
I question not his abilities as a mathematician.
He was brilliant. But to teach a bunch of us
freshman algebra, it was something else. I hadn't
had enough in high school to begin with. And his
name was Halperin, Dutch Halperin. Somebody made
the mistake of saying Dr. Halperin. He was not Dr.
Halperin. He would let you know that. He had a lot of
little idiosyncrasies. He could draw a line
across that board like that that you couldn't draw
with a straightedge. But up and down, it was
like...
He,
you know, tells us very often, he says, you are
dumb. You are so dumb. He says, you should be in
kindergarten. Now, the Dutch came from his
Germanic right. And he would, he'd say, you know,
he says, you ought to be like me. Well, I'm getting
ahead of myself, but there was a boy in our class
named Dean. His last name was Dean. He was from
Austin, Texas. Pretty smart boy, but he was having
a hard time as a freshman. He was in the cavalry, and
he was in, I believe, C Troop, and they were
notorious for the way the freshmen were treated.
And Dean was having trouble staying awake in
class, and he had been to sleep several times in
Halpert's class, Finally Halperin one day just
started reading a riot act to him and told him
about, says, says, Dean said, you are so dumb. And
he says, you should be like me. He says, I speak six
different languages. Dean said, and if you could
speak English, you'd make seven. Well, Halperin
would just fall about that big. Dean got up. He was
smart. He got up, got his books, and walked right
out of the class. But he went right straight to Dean
Brooks' office. Dean Brooks was a fine man.
Got in to see Dean Brooks, told him the whole story
of what happened, and told him, and he convinced
him. He said, Dean Brooks says, I'm not as dumb as
this fellow thinks. and says, if you will take a
chance on me and assign me to another section, he
says, I'll show you what I can do. And Dean Brooks
did, and Dean did, and Dean turned out to be a very
good student. That's just one little thing that
happened. Let's see, what about the other
classes? I had a... Chemistry? Chemistry was a
lecture. And then the one that was in charge of our
section, well, we had a lab.